# Changelog

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.1.0/), and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]

## [0.6.5] - 2024-03-30

### Added

- Run more transcription and translation requests in parallel. This greatly reduces the time needed to work with large media files.
- Cache AI API requests. Calling an AI model is slow and costs money. Making the same calls over and over again is a waste of time and money,
especially when we successfully process 99.5% of a large media file. So now we cache recent successful requests. So if you need to re-run a incomplete translation, it should be much faster and cheaper. (Cache files are stored wherever your OS thinks they should be stored. On Linux, this is `~/.cache/substudy`.)

## [0.6.4] - 2024-03-24

### Added

- We now support `substudy transcribe` with a `--format=whisper-srt` option. This outputs an SRT file generated directly by Whisper. This seems to have more artifacts than the default `--format=srt`, but it probably works a lot better for languages like Japanese that don't use spaces between words.

## [0.6.3] - 2024-03-20

### Fixed

- Linux: Do not use OpenSSL. It prevents us from building static binaries, and generally makes everything else harder.

## [0.6.2] - 2024-03-20

### Added

- Add `substudy export anki` for use with AnkiConnect. See the README.md file for an example.

### Fixed

- Correctly transcribe audio files that do not tag language information.

## [0.6.1] - 2024-03-17

### Added

- Audio-only files should now export a single album cover (if available) in place of video frames.

## [0.6.0] - 2024-03-16

### Added

- We now support Whisper-1 transcription of audio!
- Segmentation support using WebRTC voice audio detection, for finding good split points for speech recognition.
- Pretty progress bars! Now with more emoji!

### Fixed

- Translate slightly fewer lines at a time and tweak our prompt, to discourage returning the wrong number of lines.

### Removed

- `substudy` is no longer available as a library. Only the CLI is supported for the time being. We may make a library version available in the future, once the APIs have stabilized more.

## [0.5.2] - 2024-03-12

### Added

- Add automatic subtitle translation using `substudy translate foreign_subs.srt --native-lang=en > native_subs.srt`. This requires setting an `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable. (Or [a `.env` file](https://crates.io/crates/dotenv) containing that variable.) This is still experimental, but it worked well for Spanish-to-English translations in my test.

### Fixed

- Much prettier progress bars.

## [0.5.1] - 2024-03-10

### Changed

- Switched to the Apache 2.0 license for new code.

### Added

- Import Whisper JSON output using `substudy import whisper-json whisper.json > output.srt`. To create `whisper.json`, see [the `whisper.py` script](https://github.com/emk/subtitles-rs/blob/a7f9f03bdf45ea22550b9abe311bb473dd449cc3/python-experiments/whisper.py), which should work for audio files under 25 MB in major languages. We hope to integrate this into `substudy` in the future.

## [0.5.0] - 2024-03-07

### Fixed

- Updated all dependencies from their ancient 2017 versions to their latest versions.
- Ported code to Rust 2021 edition.
- Switched error-handling from the deprecated `failure` to `anyhow`, and removed dependency on `common_failures`.
- Moved binary builds to GitHub.

## [0.4.5] - 2017-12-08

### Added

- We now have official binaries for Linux, Mac and Windows.
- We now have a progress bar for media exports!

### Fixed

- The `uchardet` and `cld2` dependencies have been replaced with pure Rust dependencies. This makes it easier to support many platforms and to build from source.
- Argument parsing has been totally overhauled, so help messages should be better.
- Error formatting has been standardized and improved, so it's easier to figure out why something went wrong.
- We now support *.srt files generated by Aeneas, which is excellent for syncing audiobooks with text. These broke before because Aeneas occasionally generates 0-second subtitles, which we rejected as invalid.

